.TH CTHULHU 8 "Feb. 2003" "Thomas M. Ogrisegg" "Cthulhu webserver"

.\"* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
.\"Copyright (C) 2002, 2003 Thomas M. Ogrisegg. All rights reserved
.\"* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

.SH NAME
cthulhu -- a high performance HTTP Daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
cthulhu [-i] [-p port] [-l loglevel] [-f filename]
.SH DESCRIPTION
cthulhu is a standalone HTTP daemon designed to be fast, secure, reliable
and modular.

It supports CGI (Common Gateway Interface) via
.B cgi-exec(8),
SSL via
.B http-ssl(8),
Basic HTTP Authentification via
.B ctauth(8)
or via FastCGI Authentification Daemons. Other Technologies like PHP,
ASP etc. can be used via CGI or FastCGI. See the HOWTOs for more information.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B \-p port
Bind to the local port `port'. Only for debugging purposes. Use an ipinit
script instead
.TP 12
.B \-f logfile
Write error messages to the specified logfile. Obsolete. Use ipinit instead.
.TP 12
.B \-l loglevel
Set the loglevel for HTTP client request logging.

.br
0: do not log at all
.br
1: log only request-type and url
.br
2: log request type, url, user-agent
.br
3: log request type, url, user-agent, ip-address:port
.br
4: log all -- the whole request is beeing logged. Not recommended except for testing purposes

.SH CONFIGURATION

To add a domain/virtual host to be served create a directory under the
cthulhu base directory with the name of the domain.

For each domain/virtual host there are two configuration files:
filelist-<domain> and pathconf-<domain>.

The filelist-* files contain a filelist of files which should be cached
by the webserver (thus, files which will probably be often used). This
file should be created with the add_domain script, shipped with cthulhu.

The pathconf-* files contain the actual configuration of the domain.
It allows to configure CGI, FastCGI, Authentification and redirection
behaviour of the domain. Refer to pathconf(5) for more information.

.SH BUGS

Refer to "BUGS" in the source base directory.

.SH REMARKS

cthulhu might have problem if the webdirectorys are on an NFS mounted
filesystem. However it is generally not recommended to store files for
a webserver on an NFS volume.

.SH AUTHOR
cthulhu was developed by Thomas M. Ogrisegg. Mail comments, bug reports,
suggestions and feature requests to
.B <tom-cthulhu@fnord.at>

.SH SEE ALSO
ipinit(8), cgi-exec(8), ctauth(8), http-ssl(8), pathconf(5)
