.TH CTRLHULHU 8 "Feb. 2003" "Thomas M. Ogrisegg" "cthulhu webserver"

.\"* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
.\"Copyright (C) 2002, 2003 Thomas M. Ogrisegg. All rights reserved
.\"* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

.SH NAME
ctrlhulhu -- control cthulhu and it's coprocesses
.SH SYNOPSIS
ctrlhulhu [start|reinit|killconn|restart|status|stop]
.SH DESCRIPTION
ctrlhulhu is a simple shell script which should ease the use of cthulhu
and it's coprocesses, especially in conjunction with ipinit(8).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B start
start the cthulhu daemon. If control files for other daemons (cgi-exec,
ctauth, http-ssl) are existing it will start these daemons as well (over
ipinit)
.TP 12
.B reinit
send the cthulhu process a SIGHUP. This will cause cthulhu to check whether
any of filelist-*, pathconf-*, mimetypes changed or if new domains were
added, and then (re)read these files.
.TP 12
.B killconn
kills all active connections. Currently unimplemented as it's currently
impossible to implement this without a race condition.
.TP 12
.B restart
equivalent to calling ctrlhulhu with 'killconn', 'stop' and 'start'.
.TP 12
.B status
Just prints the last line of the error log file.
.TP 12
.B stop
Stop the Cthulhu server (with a SIGQUIT). Please note that the other daemons
will not be stopped. Kill them manually, if you have to.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH AUTHOR
ctrlhulhu was written by Thomas M. Ogrisegg
.B <tom-cthulhu@fnord.at>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ipinit (8),
.BR cthulhu (8)
